.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

# Reason for This PR

`[Author TODO: add issue #.]`
`[Open the PR after the related issue has a clear conclusion.]`
`[If there is no issue which states the need for this PR, create one first.]`
Fixes #

## Description of Changes

`[Author TODO: add description of changes.]`

- [ ] This functionality can be added in [`rust-vmm`](https://github.com/rust-vmm).

## License Acceptance

By submitting this pull request, I confirm that my contribution is made under
the terms of the Apache 2.0 license.

## PR Checklist

`[Author TODO: Meet these criteria.]`
`[Reviewer TODO: Verify that these criteria are met. Request changes if not]`

- [ ] All commits in this PR are signed (`git commit -s`).
- [ ] The issue which led to this PR has a clear conclusion.
- [ ] This PR follows the solution outlined in the related issue.
- [ ] The description of changes is clear and encompassing.
- [ ] Any required documentation changes (code and docs) are included in this PR.
- [ ] Any newly added `unsafe` code is properly documented.
- [ ] Any API changes are reflected in `firecracker/swagger.yaml`.
- [ ] Any user-facing changes are mentioned in `CHANGELOG.md`.
- [ ] All added/changed functionality is tested.

Commit message:

update PR template API change item
Updated the API change item in the PR checklist to link towards the
runbook for changing the Firecracker API.

Signed-off-by: George Pisaltu <gpl@amazon.com>

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

# Reason for This PR

`[Author TODO: add issue #.]`
`[Open the PR after the related issue has a clear conclusion.]`
`[If there is no issue which states the need for this PR, create one first.]`
Fixes #

## Description of Changes

`[Author TODO: add description of changes.]`

- [ ] This functionality can be added in [`rust-vmm`][1].

## License Acceptance

By submitting this pull request, I confirm that my contribution is made under
the terms of the Apache 2.0 license.

## PR Checklist

`[Author TODO: Meet these criteria.]`
`[Reviewer TODO: Verify that these criteria are met. Request changes if not]`

- [ ] All commits in this PR are signed (`git commit -s`).
- [ ] The issue which led to this PR has a clear conclusion.
- [ ] This PR follows the solution outlined in the related issue.
- [ ] The description of changes is clear and encompassing.
- [ ] Any required documentation changes (code and docs) are included in this PR.
- [ ] Any newly added `unsafe` code is properly documented.
- [ ] Any API changes follow the [Runbook for Firecracker API changes][2].
- [ ] Any user-facing changes are mentioned in `CHANGELOG.md`.
- [ ] All added/changed functionality is tested.

[1]: https://github.com/rust-vmm
[2]: ../docs/api-change-runbook.md
