docs/seccomp.md, before:

# Seccomp in Firecracker

Seccomp filters are used by default to limit the host system calls Firecracker
can use. The default filters only allow the bare minimum set of system calls
and parameters that Firecracker needs in order to function correctly.

The filters are loaded in the Firecracker process, on a per-thread basis,
as follows:

- VMM (main) - right before executing guest code on the VCPU threads;
- API - right before launching the HTTP server;
- VCPUs - right before executing guest code.

**Note**: On experimental GNU targets, there are no default seccomp filters
installed, since they are not intended for production use.

Firecracker uses JSON files for expressing the filter rules and relies on the
[seccompiler](seccompiler.md) tool for all the seccomp functionality.

## Default filters (recommended)

At build time, the default target-specific JSON file is compiled into the
serialized binary file, using seccompiler, and gets embedded in the Firecracker
binary.

This process is performed automatically, when building the executable.

To minimise the overhead of succesive builds, the compiled filter file is
cached in the build folder and is only recompiled if modified.

You can find the default seccomp filters under `resources/seccomp`.

For a certain release, the default JSON filters used to build Firecracker are also
included in the respective release archive, viewable on the
[releases page](https://github.com/firecracker-microvm/firecracker/releases).

## Custom filters (advanced users only)

**Note**: This feature overrides the default filters and can be dangerous.
Filter misconfiguration can result in abruptly terminating the process or
disabling the seccomp security boundary altogether.
We recommend using the default filters instead.

Firecracker exposes a way for advanced users to override the default filters
with fully customisable alternatives, leveraging the same JSON/seccompiler
tooling, at startup time.

Via Firecracker's optional `--seccomp-filter` parameter, one can supply
the path to a custom filter file compiled with seccompiler.

Potential use cases:

- Users of experimentally-supported targets (like GNU libc builds) may be able
    to use this feature to implement seccomp filters without needing to have a
    custom build of Firecracker.
- Faced with a _theoretical_ production issue, due to a syscall that was
    issued by the Firecracker process, but not allowed by the seccomp policy,
    one may use a custom filter in order to quickly mitigate the issue. This
    can speed up the resolution time, by not needing to build and deploy a new
    Firecracker binary.
    However, as the note above states, this needs to be thoroughly tested and
    should not be a long-term solution.

## Disabling seccomp (not recommended)

Firecracker also has support for a `--no-seccomp` parameter, which disables all
seccomp filtering.
It can be helpful when quickly prototyping changes in Firecracker that use new
system calls.

Do **not** use in production.

Commit message:

seccomp: add man-in-the-middle mitigation note
Signed-off-by: alindima <alindima@amazon.com>

docs/seccomp.md, after:

# Seccomp in Firecracker

Seccomp filters are used by default to limit the host system calls Firecracker
can use. The default filters only allow the bare minimum set of system calls
and parameters that Firecracker needs in order to function correctly.

The filters are loaded in the Firecracker process, on a per-thread basis,
as follows:

- VMM (main) - right before executing guest code on the VCPU threads;
- API - right before launching the HTTP server;
- VCPUs - right before executing guest code.

**Note**: On experimental GNU targets, there are no default seccomp filters
installed, since they are not intended for production use.

Firecracker uses JSON files for expressing the filter rules and relies on the
[seccompiler](seccompiler.md) tool for all the seccomp functionality.

## Default filters (recommended)

At build time, the default target-specific JSON file is compiled into the
serialized binary file, using seccompiler, and gets embedded in the Firecracker
binary.

This process is performed automatically, when building the executable.

To minimise the overhead of succesive builds, the compiled filter file is
cached in the build folder and is only recompiled if modified.

You can find the default seccomp filters under `resources/seccomp`.

For a certain release, the default JSON filters used to build Firecracker are also
included in the respective release archive, viewable on the
[releases page](https://github.com/firecracker-microvm/firecracker/releases).

## Custom filters (advanced users only)

**Note 1**: This feature overrides the default filters and can be dangerous.
Filter misconfiguration can result in abruptly terminating the process or
disabling the seccomp security boundary altogether.
We recommend using the default filters instead.

**Note 2**: The user is fully responsible for managing the filter files.
We recommend using integrity checks whenever transferring/downloading files,
for example checksums, as well as for the Firecracker binary or other artifacts,
in order to mitigate potential man-in-the-middle attacks.

Firecracker exposes a way for advanced users to override the default filters
with fully customisable alternatives, leveraging the same JSON/seccompiler
tooling, at startup time.

Via Firecracker's optional `--seccomp-filter` parameter, one can supply
the path to a custom filter file compiled with seccompiler.

Potential use cases:

- Users of experimentally-supported targets (like GNU libc builds) may be able
    to use this feature to implement seccomp filters without needing to have a
    custom build of Firecracker.
- Faced with a _theoretical_ production issue, due to a syscall that was
    issued by the Firecracker process, but not allowed by the seccomp policy,
    one may use a custom filter in order to quickly mitigate the issue. This
    can speed up the resolution time, by not needing to build and deploy a new
    Firecracker binary.
    However, as the note above states, this needs to be thoroughly tested and
    should not be a long-term solution.

## Disabling seccomp (not recommended)

Firecracker also has support for a `--no-seccomp` parameter, which disables all
seccomp filtering.
It can be helpful when quickly prototyping changes in Firecracker that use new
system calls.

Do **not** use in production.
